on the site you get to chat with you
guys today I'm just mostly gonna do a
highlight of all of the crazy awesome
things that have happened in q2 for
those of you who are maybe joining us
for the first time i PFS is aiming to
make the web or peer-to-peer so instead
of working kind of with a central server
and location addressed way of finding
and accessing information in in the HTTP
model I give us more resilient Lee and
directly connects machines with each
other so that they can operate even in
sub areas or in more resilient
circumstances directly in our operating
and sharing data with each other so when
you compare the two in a normal HTTP
world you are maybe grabbing vast PNG
from example.com and if example.com
gives you different things or is down or
has moved that file or it is no longer
serving it to you you're out of luck you
can never get bad stuff ng in our
wonderful content addressed world where
we're actually accessing data by what it
is instead of where it's located and you
have a much more resilient way of
finding and accessing that content
anyone can give it to you and you can
validate that it's something you are
looking for so IVFs aims to address a
whole ton of different problems a number
of the the examples are kind of super
talking about security model of being
able to to check that the data you are
accessing acidity we're looking for
being more resilient to work well in
emerging networks being more censorship
resistant so that you can't a can't take
down like large data sets that many
different people are trying to host and
make resilient works better offline and
a number of other things along those
lines we've seen a lot of Awesome
progress on the ITF s ecosystem side
this is our handy-dandy publicly edible
ecosystem diagram as you'll see I think
we took a pass at adding more things so
this is probably a little bit more
cluttered than where you saw it in in
kind of the end of q1 but some awesome
additions some really cool new
collaborations a lot of things happening
through our def Grants Program so two
weeks and Nix OS and rust ipfs a lot of
new things here in our other category
which we just haven't finished
categorizing yet
magically from a Content perspective we
have you know more
visibility across persistence all of the
awesome defy front ends that are using
IP FS to make their there defy platforms
fully decentralized so a really a lot of
really awesome cool stuff happening here
and if you are not represented and
you're working on an awesome project in
that ecosystem I'll drop a link in chat
later please come in and update this and
add the the cool things you're working
on here so that we can make sure it's
represented and people can find and see
the cool stuff you're working on and so
the IDF s public network is made up of
many many many different nodes that are
being run by lots of individuals
throughout the world we saw a huge
increase in this last year over a 30x
increase just within 2019 which is super
cool the network is now hundreds of
thousands of nodes all interoperating
with each other sharing data and finding
content and that's phenomenal we also
have seen a lot of growth on our gateway
a lot of different people run ipfs HTTP
gateways to kind of bridge all of the
content and data being shared and I
think that's networked to those
accessing it from kind of regular web 2
worlds and we're seeing lots and lots of
usage there as well over 12 terabytes of
data being accessed just from our
gateway per week and we know that
CloudFlare and pinata and textile and
other groups also run run gateways that
are fetching data so lots of lots of
information living in the IP FS
ecosystem that people are trying to
fight you over gateways as well and kind
of most excitingly another update on the
network performance side of things in
IPS 0.5 which was what we talked about
at our last ipfs meetup back in April
beginning of May time frame we launched
a lot of new performance improvements to
how quickly you can find information in
ipfs and how resilient or like that
responsibly IPS can can serve data to
you and we've seen some awesome
improvements in the the performance even
since the last time we updated people on
the the work happening here and so I in
ipfs the previous versions we were
seeing like pretty slow performance in
that 95th percentile case and we've seen
that go down to under 5 seconds which
was the
the goal that we were aiming for which
is really phenomenal and these numbers
have Artie have improved 3x since where
we were even just like I month and a
half ago which is really amazing and I
think we can very happily celebrate that
the the goal that we took on for the
first half of 2020 around improving
content routing performance has really
solidly been met which is really
exciting and so thank you to the network
for for all of the work upgrading and
actually helping improve the the
distribution of notes participating in
the DHD which helps make this
information more accessible to people
trying to find it and helps us improve
all of these performance metrics or
folks so pretty awesome awesome so maybe
jumping into some of the ecosystem
highlights which is really the the meat
of what I wanted to talk to you guys
about today we kind of kicked off at the
very end of q1 with I feel IVFs colon
slash slash support launching default in
Opera for Android so now you can enter
any excess content path and that will
resolve seamlessly for you in the
browser which is super exciting was the
first major browser to offer a default
IP FS support like that which is really
amazing the the next major thing that we
talked about kind of at the beginning of
q2 was launching IGFs 0.5 which helped
us get these performance improvements
and really was just a major upgrade
across the board for the performance of
ipfs and usability by a ton of different
groups building on top of it and a big
component of ODOT 5 and being able to
land all of those improvements was test
ground which also launched I think a
week or two afterward which is this
peer-to-peer network testing
benchmarking simulation tool that's been
used by a number of different groups now
but was super critical to validating the
features especially around heart like
I'm improving and tweaking the DHT
because it's very very core to ipfs is
like ability to find and discover
content and we wanted to make sure that
any changes we made wouldn't have
negative repercussions on all of the
people currently depending on the
network so use test grunt very heavily
to simulate and benchmark and validate
that these improvements were going to be
useful and this is now open for business
and other
can can use test ground and a number of
groups already have for example gossip
sub the 1.1 which brings a lot of
hardening improvements to live p2p
pub/sub also was a heavy user of test
ground for running various different
potential attack simulations and being
able to validate that gossip sub was
hardened against the sorts of attacks
that folks who are using gossip sub
which include aetherium - and file coin
and a number of other block chains and
other ecosystems are all like being able
to utilize this within like their attack
parameters and configurations and so
also a great example of just being able
to bring these tools together and you
know use them to accelerate our own
development and our ability to improve
these total techniques something that
happened I think like a week or even a
couple of days after our test ground we
had an IP FS pinning summit it's kind of
our first foray into digital virtual
events we can't get together in person
quite as much these days
so this was an opportunity to bring
together many of the ipfs service
providers tool creators and
infrastructure components of the ipfs
ecosystem to present on all of the
different ways that we're kind of
contributing back to making ipfs more
accessible more easy to use from a
development perspective and the
opportunities coming in the next couple
of months there's a lot of great videos
of this this series of talks up on my
penis YouTube really really recommend
people checking it out there were people
presenting from the textile team had a
lot of things to present unstoppable
domains pinata IO text who's working on
you cam there are a ton of awesome
groups who participated in the summit
and shared a lot of their techniques and
best practices from Fira I'm sure
they're sleek other folks I'm missing
but it was it was a really amazing kind
of digital conference and really
recommend people checking it out there's
a some good recommendations for kind of
how to get started utilizing all of
these great infrastructure tools in ipfs
not to be missed
we had to to win a bit Jaya's IVFs
releases you'll hear more about that
soon from Alex but there's a lot of
awesome features included in there as
well including support for eco ipfs
about five compatibility faster bit swap
and cancelable requests but i'm sure we
will hear much more about the actual
end-user improvements that people get to
experience as uses of JSF EFS another
group that came on the scene is sapien
wallet which is really cool and they're
building on top of textile and ipfs and
just a light wallet with a very
beautiful image if you ask me but cool
things that people are building on top
of these these tools and and these
networks matrix also launched an update
which was very very popular I think
mostly very much with the hacker news
crowd but I think in general we're super
psyched about what they're doing
bringing matrix to kind of the p2p use
case built on top of limb p2p they
actually two different P to P matrix
implementations competing with each
other very very cool to bring kind of
the federated matrix model to be fully
cured of here sleek launch sleek storage
so you can easily store and fetch files
from IP of us it brings all of the the
beautiful and smooth UX you expect from
fleek to the bit more like data like
file system management use case it's
really beautiful highly recommend
checking it out if you haven't seen it
before
also this launched like two or three
days ago
was kind of work between unstoppable
domains and three box to launch the D
blog for decentralized blogging it has
comments you can have accounts it's
really really slick and smooth and a lot
of groups have already jumped on this as
like a very easy way to take what you
know was a kind of more complicated
building they'll be only slightly more
feature full and complex blog blogging
system and makes it really really easy
for people to pick up and get started
and so highly recommend people taking a
look at that as well almost to the end
blog scan I think this just launched
yesterday which is super cool ether scan
launched a search engine for
decentralized websites and so and if
you're familiar with almond it dotty
this also looks across crypto
not still domains so you can get a good
kind of index and query across them for
the the sort of information that people
are making 4d web websites and finally
work we'll hear more about this today as
well
ion launched their distributed identity
system built on D IDs ipfs had Bitcoin a
lot of really cool stuff super excited
to see this project like lift off to its
next wave of functionality and and
openness and really excited to continue
supporting these guys as they as they
push forward identities a hard space and
they are really trail blazing a path so
excited to continue hearing more about
that shortly awesome so that's kind of
cute too a lot of stuff has already
happened even though we just had our
last meetup I think like yeah you know a
month and a half ago all of this stuff
has happened in sunders is really cool
some quick sneak peeks for q3 first
pinning service integrations into a
desktop and web UI this is something
that we previewed as I keep us spinning
summit then I just ignite hackathon
which is coming in the next couple of
months and then IV mustn't breathe so
first one and you might have if you
attended the pinning summit be familiar
with the idea that ipfs desktop and web
UI well great for managing your local
node there's some opportunities for us
to more deeply integrate the pinning
services that people use frequently for
kind of more cross node replication and
resilience of data getting added to ipfs
and so we've updated some of our mocks
and active work is happening here if
you're excited about this please do send
us a note and you know expect to see
progress happening in like web UI and
desktop folders for file in ignite this
is a really cool series of hackathons
that are happening over the next couple
of months people who are building tools
and apps on ipfs and file coin and kind
of plugging in file going to the the
tools they're building from a persistent
standpoint and so a lot of a lot of
people are like hard at work on making
that kind of easy and a smooth smooth
user experience for Aikido stuff fell
and bruised two on board on but if
you're excited about this please do get
involved
I think there's gonna be a number of
different events and ways that you can
participate so keep an eye out and we
would love to to see the cool stuff you
build and finally you may have seen a
fancy new issue open up on the the
briefed side of things and active work
has started on on this and we're super
excited to support the brave team as
they push forward to adding more native
ipfs support embrace so exciting days
here and of course big big thank you in
general to our wider activist community
you guys are the ones who are launching
all of these amazing new things and
tools and projects that make active a
stronger and better and working and
collaborating with each other to help
lift this whole community up it's one of
the things we all like really really
love about working in my fest space so
thank you all for all of the
contributions you make and all of the
things you are shipping that make this
ecosystem stronger it's really really
great to work for y'all it's great so
get excited it's gonna be another
phenomenal quarter q3 brings a lot of
exhausting launches and we're really
excited to keep working with you and if
anyone has questions feel free to drop
them in the ask a question section in
the chat or you can DM me on Twitter
that's also a very common way for people
to ask me any questions so excited to to
continue connecting with you guys Thank
You Molly that was so good
that's so much information in 15 minutes
you really use them in 15 minutes
ODOT eight-speed we do have a question
in chat how traceable is the originator
of content so can it be traced back to
where it was first added and pinned or
are there access logs for the
implementation I think not
not super traceable to an original point
all people you know ipfs is not super
privacy oriented right now and so
definitely don't don't be hosting or
receding content that you don't want
associated with the IP of the node that
you're seeing it from and so you know
being be thoughtful about that but you
know who started seeding content first
or those sorts of things is not
information that that the idea of s
equals you know network itself is you
know harvesting
or you know trying to make accessible to
people so I think it's more about kind
of many parties resilient lis storing
and helping spread and share content and
so it the the kind of tracing
functionality there is is not built
until I get that's Network but like
always be careful because people can
build systems on top of it you know
harvest any public information and hold
it for long periods of time so you know
it's definitely not built in but but
things to be careful of